---
layout: post
title: "GSoC'19 - CaMicroscope"
excerpt: "Work done during Google Summer of Code - 2019 under Biomedical Informatics, Emory University."
categories: [GSoC-19]
comments: true
---

## Synopsis

### About caMicroscope
> caMicroscope is a  Web Based Annotation and Visualization Platform for Digitized Whole Slide Images.

 It is a tool to view, annotate, and analyze whole-slide, biomedical images. It manages digital pathology images, associated clinical and imaging metadata, and human/machine generated annotations and markups.

### About the project
The goal of this project is to allow model developers to test their trained models on the selected area of WSI. 

### Why this feature is needed
In general, the deep learning models are tested on a batch of images and later the predictions are visualized using various tools. If a whole slide image pertaining to a model is available, the model developer has to manually crop the required region he/she wants to test the performance on. This can be tedious if one wishes to test on soecific regions of the WSI.

By the addition of this feature to allow testing the models in the image viewer itself will likely improve the productivity and would allow the developer to have better insights about the performance of the model.

### What is implemented
caMicroscope has an app that allows nuclei segmentation using watershed algorithm. It is extended to allow user to upload and test the segmentation models.
An additional app to allow user to upload and test the classification models.

### How it is implemented
The proposed features are implemented using TensorFlow.js. TensorFlow.js is a library for developing and training ML models in JavaScript and deploying in browser.

Models developed using Keras are compatible after a straighforward conversion.

### Mentors
- Ryan Birmingham 

- Nan Li

## Background 

### Whole Slide Imaging
Whole slide imaging[^1] refers to scanning of conventional glass slides in order to produce digital slides. Prior to the introduction of WSI, digital imaging in anatomic pathology relied largely on microscope-mounted cameras to produce “static” digital images. These static images were of limited clinical utility because they captured only specific regions of a glass slide. WSI, also commonly referred to as “virtual microscopy”, aims to emulate conventional light microscopy in a computer-generated manner. 

Practically speaking, WSI consists of two processes. The first process utilizes specialized hardware (scanner) to digitize glass slides, which generates a large representative digital image (so-called “digital slide”). The second process employs specialized software (ie, virtual slide viewer) to view and/or analyze these enormous digital files. *caMicroscope* is one such virtual slide viewer.

[^1]: [Whole slide imaging in pathology: Advantages, limitations, and emerging perspectives](https://www.dovepress.com/whole-slide-imaging-in-pathology-advantages-limitations-and-emerging-p-peer-reviewed-article-PLMI)

### Pull Requests

#### Phase 1
* [Add support for Classification models](https://github.com/camicroscope/caMicroscope/pull/187)
* Classification sample models

#### Phase 2
* [Add support for segmentation models](https://github.com/camicroscope/caMicroscope/pull/195)

#### Phase 3
* [Change UI and patchwise prediction instead of hard resize](https://github.com/camicroscope/caMicroscope/pull/197)
* Segmentation sample models

## How to use

A detailed guide is linked [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/127LIvqi_f3QzYQNYDXJm83AWVhq56igG4HpVa5xy-FM/edit#heading=h.nrnw03t7conb).

## How to contribute
caMicroscope should be deployed as part of a stack. 

- Clone [caMicroscope](https://github.com/camicroscope/caMicroscope).
- Clone the Docker distribution from [camicroscope/Distro](https://github.com/camicroscope/Distro).

- In the above repo, edit *caMicroscope.yml* and mount the cloned repo of caMicroscope as a volume under viewer as below.

{% highlight yml %}
  viewer:
    build: "../caMicroscope"
    container_name: ca-front
    volumes:
      - ./config/login.html:/var/www/html/login.html
      - ../caMicroscope/:/var/www/html/                         
{% endhighlight %}

- Change the current directory to Distro

    `cd Distro`

- Run with

    `docker-compose -f caMicroscope.yml up`

- Once everything is up, go to http://localhost:4010/.






